book/docs/setup/buildDocumentation.md, before:

# Plutus API documentation

## Local build

If you've built Plutus with Nix, documentation you shoud be ready as a symbolic link under `~/plutus` folder. Look for the symbolic link which contains _haddock_<sup>1</sup>:

```bash
# the documentation folder includes the word haddock    -|
result -> /nix/store/p9zqm03qmc7p5p1vfdbl06xysm85ir4f-haddock-join/
```

If this folder isn't under `~/plutus` you can build it with the command

```bash
[~/plutus] nix-build -A plutus-playground.haddock
```

You can see the plutus documentation in your regular browser. for example:

```bash 
brave-browser ~/plutus/result/share/doc/index.html
```


[^1]: haddock is haskell's tool for documentation generation


## (Optional) launch Haddock documentation from a local static site web server

The method above will open the Plutus API documentation using `file://` procotol, which can lead to problems dealing with javascript, mainly haddock's search utility is disable. We can use plutus dependencies available within the `nix-shell` to effortless create a local static site web server to serve the documentation using `http` protocol.

- Open a nix shell in plutus folder
```bash
> cd path/to/plutus
> nix-shell
```
- Move out of the plutus folder an create a new folder to store the web server executable
```
[nix-shell:path/to/plutus] > mkdir path/to/haddock-web
[nix-shell:path/to/plutus] > cd path/to/haddock-web
[nix-shell:path/to/haddock-web] > echo "module Main where" > main.hs
```
- Open main.hs in your editor and copy-paste the following code. Notice that no dependencies have to be installed because we are re-using plutus' ones
```haskell
{-# LANGUAGE DataKinds #-}
{-# LANGUAGE TypeOperators #-}

module Main where

import qualified Servant.Server.StaticFiles as Static
import qualified Servant.Server as Server
import Servant.API ( Raw, type (:>) )
import Servant
    ( Proxy(..),
      Application,
      Raw,
      type (:>),
      serve,
      serveDirectoryWebApp )
import Data.Kind ()
import Network.Wai.Handler.Warp (run)

type Haddock = "plutus-haddock" :> Raw

server :: Server.Server Haddock
-- this path changes depending on plutus commit
-- Using the symbolic link hasn't work for me
server = serveDirectoryWebApp "/nix/store/52jgmp3zgxw2vr30rlvchr0k256lbbg1-haddock-join/share/doc"

myApi :: Proxy Haddock
myApi = Proxy

app :: Application
app = serve myApi server

main :: IO ()
main = do
    putStrLn "running plutus documentation in http://localhost:8080/plutus-haddock/index.html"
    run 8080 app
```
- Compile the file with 

## How to use the documentation

The plutus documentation is a big static webpage and It includes many modules not directly related with Plutus Contracts, like Plutus Core, Plutus IR or the Playground backend. 

The most interesting modules for contract coding can be found at the very top of index.html page. Those are:

```
PlutusTx: Compiling Haskell to PLC (Plutus Core; on-chain code).
PlutusTx.Prelude: Haskell prelude replacement compatible with PLC.
Plutus.Contract: Writing Plutus apps (off-chain code).
Ledger.Constraints: Constructing and validating Plutus transactions. Built on PlutusTx and Plutus.Contract.
Ledger.Typed.Scripts: A type-safe interface for spending and producing script outputs. Built on PlutusTx.
Plutus.Trace.Emulator: Testing Plutus contracts in the emulator.
```

Commit message:

added a section for launching haddock  from a web server, which anable Javascript

book/docs/setup/buildDocumentation.md, after:

# Plutus API documentation

## Local build

If you've built Plutus with Nix, documentation you shoud be ready as a symbolic link under `~/plutus` folder. Look for the symbolic link which contains _haddock_<sup>1</sup>:

```bash
# the documentation folder includes the word haddock    -|
result -> /nix/store/p9zqm03qmc7p5p1vfdbl06xysm85ir4f-haddock-join/
```

If this folder isn't under `~/plutus` you can build it with the command

```bash
[~/plutus] nix-build -A plutus-playground.haddock
```

You can see the plutus documentation in your regular browser. for example:

```bash 
brave-browser ~/plutus/result/share/doc/index.html
```


[^1]: haddock is haskell's tool for documentation generation


## (Optional) launch Haddock documentation from a local static site web server

The method above will open the Plutus API documentation using `file://` procotol, which can lead to problems dealing with javascript, mainly haddock's search utility is disable. We can use plutus dependencies available within the `nix-shell` to effortless create a local static site web server to serve the documentation using `http` protocol.

- Open a nix shell in plutus folder

```bash
> cd path/to/plutus
> nix-shell
```

- Move out of the plutus folder an create a new folder to store the web server executable

```bash
[nix-shell:path/to/plutus] > mkdir path/to/haddock-web
[nix-shell:path/to/plutus] > cd path/to/haddock-web
[nix-shell:path/to/haddock-web] > echo "module Main where" > main.hs
```

- Open main.hs in your editor and copy-paste the following code. Notice that no dependencies have to be installed because we are re-using plutus' ones

```haskell
{-# LANGUAGE DataKinds #-}
{-# LANGUAGE TypeOperators #-}

module Main where

import qualified Servant.Server.StaticFiles as Static
import qualified Servant.Server as Server
import Servant.API ( Raw, type (:>) )
import Servant
    ( Proxy(..),
      Application,
      Raw,
      type (:>),
      serve,
      serveDirectoryWebApp )
import Data.Kind ()
import Network.Wai.Handler.Warp (run)

type Haddock = "plutus-haddock" :> Raw

server :: Server.Server Haddock
-- this path changes depending on plutus commit
-- Using the symbolic link hasn't work for me
server = serveDirectoryWebApp "/nix/store/52jgmp3zgxw2vr30rlvchr0k256lbbg1-haddock-join/share/doc"

myApi :: Proxy Haddock
myApi = Proxy

app :: Application
app = serve myApi server

main :: IO ()
main = do
    putStrLn "running plutus documentation in http://localhost:8080/plutus-haddock/index.html"
    run 8080 app
```

- Compile the file directly with `ghc` and run the executable (once compiled, it can run from outside the `nix-shell`)

```bash
[nix-shell:path/to/haddock-web] > ghc main.hs
[1 of 1] Compiling Main             ( main.hs, main.o )
Linking main ...
[nix-shell:path/to/haddock-web] > ./main # nix-shell not necessary
running plutus documentation in http://localhost:8080/plutus-haddock/index.html

```
- now your plutus documentation is running in the given URL with js enable. 

## How to use the documentation

The plutus documentation is a big static webpage and It includes many modules not directly related with Plutus Contracts, like Plutus Core, Plutus IR or the Playground backend. If you launch haddock from a web server, you can press `s` to open the _search prompt_ which is super handy to discover unknow functions and to find the module a function is exported from.

The most interesting modules for contract coding can be found at the very top of index.html page. Those are:

```yaml
PlutusTx: Compiling Haskell to PLC (Plutus Core; on-chain code).
PlutusTx.Prelude: Haskell prelude replacement compatible with PLC.
Plutus.Contract: Writing Plutus apps (off-chain code).
Ledger.Constraints: Constructing and validating Plutus transactions. Built on PlutusTx and Plutus.Contract.
Ledger.Typed.Scripts: A type-safe interface for spending and producing script outputs. Built on PlutusTx.
Plutus.Trace.Emulator: Testing Plutus contracts in the emulator.
```
