book/docs/setup/editors/vim.md, before:

# Vim

### Credits
- https://github.com/zarej


_This guide is tested on Ubuntu 20.04, but it should work also with the other Linux distros and most probably with macOS and Windows(via WSL) with small modifications from external links._
## installation vim / neovim
Neovim is a little better than Vim when we use it as IDE as it is better supported by coc.nvim plugin. It supports scrolling inside floating windows and also a status bar which is very useful during long back processes. 
### vim
Vim can be easily installed via the package manager of any Linux distribution. For Debian based:
```bash
sudo apt install vim
```
For the other platforms check: https://www.vim.org/

### neovim
For the most Linux distributions:
```bash
curl -LO https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/latest/download/nvim.appimage
chmod +x nvim.appimage
sudo cp nvim.appimage /usr/local/bin/nvim
```
For the other platforms check install instrustion:
https://github.com/neovim/neovim/wiki/Installing-Neovim
Now nvim can be started with the command: 
```bash
nvim
```

## nix-shell
We will use `nix-shell` because everything we need is already installed if we use nix configuration from the main [plutus repository](https://github.com/input-output-hk/plutus). Go to the root directory of the cloned git repository and enter to nix-shell:
```bash
~/plutus$ nix-shell
```

## vim-plug
We need `vim-plug` plugin manager installed to install coc.nvim plugin.

### vim
```bash
curl -fLo ~/.vim/autoload/plug.vim --create-dirs \
    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim
```
### neovim
```bash
sh -c 'curl -fLo "${XDG_DATA_HOME:-$HOME/.local/share}"/nvim/site/autoload/plug.vim --create-dirs \
       https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim'
```
For the or other platforms then Linux, you can check the official [vim-plug docs](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug).

## coc.nvim plugin
[Conqueror of Completion](https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim) is a plugin for Vim/Neovim that provides code completion. 
Add to `~/.vimrc` for Vim or `~/.config/nvim/init.vim` for Neovim the following:
```
call plug#begin('~/.vim/plugged')

Plug 'neoclide/coc.nvim', {'branch': 'release'}

call plug#end()


" Set internal encoding of vim, not needed on neovim, since coc.nvim using some
" unicode characters in the file autoload/float.vim
set encoding=utf-8

" TextEdit might fail if hidden is not set.
set hidden

" Some servers have issues with backup files, see #649.
set nobackup
set nowritebackup

" Give more space for displaying messages.
set cmdheight=2

" Having longer updatetime (default is 4000 ms = 4 s) leads to noticeable
" delays and poor user experience.
set updatetime=300

" Don't pass messages to |ins-completion-menu|.
set shortmess+=c

" Always show the signcolumn, otherwise it would shift the text each time
" diagnostics appear/become resolved.
if has("patch-8.1.1564")
  " Recently vim can merge signcolumn and number column into one
  set signcolumn=number
else
  set signcolumn=yes
endif

" Use tab for trigger completion with characters ahead and navigate.
" NOTE: Use command ':verbose imap <tab>' to make sure tab is not mapped by
" other plugin before putting this into your config.
inoremap <silent><expr> <TAB>
      \ pumvisible() ? "\<C-n>" :
      \ <SID>check_back_space() ? "\<TAB>" :
      \ coc#refresh()
inoremap <expr><S-TAB> pumvisible() ? "\<C-p>" : "\<C-h>"

function! s:check_back_space() abort
  let col = col('.') - 1
  return !col || getline('.')[col - 1]  =~# '\s'
endfunction

" Use <c-space> to trigger completion.
if has('nvim')
  inoremap <silent><expr> <c-space> coc#refresh()
else
  inoremap <silent><expr> <c-@> coc#refresh()
endif

" Make <CR> auto-select the first completion item and notify coc.nvim to
" format on enter, <cr> could be remapped by other vim plugin
inoremap <silent><expr> <cr> pumvisible() ? coc#_select_confirm()
                              \: "\<C-g>u\<CR>\<c-r>=coc#on_enter()\<CR>"

" Use `[g` and `]g` to navigate diagnostics
" Use `:CocDiagnostics` to get all diagnostics of current buffer in location list.
nmap <silent> [g <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-prev)
nmap <silent> ]g <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-next)

" GoTo code navigation.
nmap <silent> gd <Plug>(coc-definition)
nmap <silent> gy <Plug>(coc-type-definition)
nmap <silent> gi <Plug>(coc-implementation)
nmap <silent> gr <Plug>(coc-references)

" Use K to show documentation in preview window.
nnoremap <silent> K :call <SID>show_documentation()<CR>

function! s:show_documentation()
  if (index(['vim','help'], &filetype) >= 0)
    execute 'h '.expand('<cword>')
  elseif (coc#rpc#ready())
    call CocActionAsync('doHover')
  else
    execute '!' . &keywordprg . " " . expand('<cword>')
  endif
endfunction

" Highlight the symbol and its references when holding the cursor.
autocmd CursorHold * silent call CocActionAsync('highlight')

" Symbol renaming.
nmap <leader>rn <Plug>(coc-rename)

" Formatting selected code.
xmap <leader>f  <Plug>(coc-format-selected)
nmap <leader>f  <Plug>(coc-format-selected)

augroup mygroup
  autocmd!
  " Setup formatexpr specified filetype(s).
  autocmd FileType typescript,json setl formatexpr=CocAction('formatSelected')
  " Update signature help on jump placeholder.
  autocmd User CocJumpPlaceholder call CocActionAsync('showSignatureHelp')
augroup end

" Applying codeAction to the selected region.
" Example: `<leader>aap` for current paragraph
xmap <leader>a  <Plug>(coc-codeaction-selected)
nmap <leader>a  <Plug>(coc-codeaction-selected)

" Remap keys for applying codeAction to the current buffer.
nmap <leader>ac  <Plug>(coc-codeaction)
" Apply AutoFix to problem on the current line.
nmap <leader>qf  <Plug>(coc-fix-current)

" Map function and class text objects
" NOTE: Requires 'textDocument.documentSymbol' support from the language server.
xmap if <Plug>(coc-funcobj-i)
omap if <Plug>(coc-funcobj-i)
xmap af <Plug>(coc-funcobj-a)
omap af <Plug>(coc-funcobj-a)
xmap ic <Plug>(coc-classobj-i)
omap ic <Plug>(coc-classobj-i)
xmap ac <Plug>(coc-classobj-a)
omap ac <Plug>(coc-classobj-a)

" Remap <C-f> and <C-b> for scroll float windows/popups.
if has('nvim-0.4.0') || has('patch-8.2.0750')
  nnoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-f> coc#float#has_scroll() ? coc#float#scroll(1) : "\<C-f>"
  nnoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-b> coc#float#has_scroll() ? coc#float#scroll(0) : "\<C-b>"
  inoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-f> coc#float#has_scroll() ? "\<c-r>=coc#float#scroll(1)\<cr>" : "\<Right>"
  inoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-b> coc#float#has_scroll() ? "\<c-r>=coc#float#scroll(0)\<cr>" : "\<Left>"
  vnoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-f> coc#float#has_scroll() ? coc#float#scroll(1) : "\<C-f>"
  vnoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-b> coc#float#has_scroll() ? coc#float#scroll(0) : "\<C-b>"
endif

" Use CTRL-S for selections ranges.
" Requires 'textDocument/selectionRange' support of language server.
nmap <silent> <C-s> <Plug>(coc-range-select)
xmap <silent> <C-s> <Plug>(coc-range-select)

" Add `:Format` command to format current buffer.
command! -nargs=0 Format :call CocAction('format')

" Add `:Fold` command to fold current buffer.
command! -nargs=? Fold :call     CocAction('fold', <f-args>)

" Add `:OR` command for organize imports of the current buffer.
command! -nargs=0 OR   :call     CocAction('runCommand', 'editor.action.organizeImport')

" Add (Neo)Vim's native statusline support.
" NOTE: Please see `:h coc-status` for integrations with external plugins that
" provide custom statusline: lightline.vim, vim-airline.
set statusline^=%{coc#status()}%{get(b:,'coc_current_function','')}

" Mappings for CoCList
" Show all diagnostics.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>a  :<C-u>CocList diagnostics<cr>
" Manage extensions.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>e  :<C-u>CocList extensions<cr>
" Show commands.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>c  :<C-u>CocList commands<cr>
" Find symbol of current document.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>o  :<C-u>CocList outline<cr>
" Search workspace symbols.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>s  :<C-u>CocList -I symbols<cr>
" Do default action for next item.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>j  :<C-u>CocNext<CR>
" Do default action for previous item.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>k  :<C-u>CocPrev<CR>
" Resume latest coc list.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>p  :<C-u>CocListResume<CR>


" Custom settings
" Enable line numbers
set number
" Tab and indentation setup
set tabstop=8 softtabstop=0 expandtab shiftwidth=4 smarttab autoindent

```
The first part is `coc.nvim` plugin and the rest is configuration for a code completition. At the last we have `Custom settings` for the other useful configuration like line numbers and tab and indent setup.

Now you can enter to `vim` and execute `:PlugInstall` to install `coc.nvim`. After that you need to exit Vim/Neovim and enter again to launch `coc-nvim` plugin. Next step is to configure it with vim command `:CocConfig` by entering the following:
```json
{
  "languageserver": {
    "haskell": {
      "command": "haskell-language-server",
      "args": ["--lsp"],
      "rootPatterns": ["*.cabal", "stack.yaml", "cabal.project", "package.yaml", "hie.yaml"],
      "filetypes": ["haskell", "lhaskell"]
    }
  }
}

```
We have `haskell-language-server` already installed and accessible via `nix-shell`.

## Start Vim/Nvim
Now you can use `vim` or `neovim` to edit Haskell files with code completion.

When you enter the first time to vim it will need to wait few minutes until code completion is initialized and ghc and cabal finish their jobs. If you are using Neovim you will see progress in status bar.

## Keyboars Shortcuts
 	
\<leader\> key is usually `\` 
C_key(s) is CTRL+key(s)

| Key                     | Description                                                               | 
| ----------------------- |:-------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| \<leader\>f             | Formatting selection.                                                     |
| \<leader\>qf            | Apply suggested quick fix.                                                |
| \<leader\>a             | Select and apply a fix from the list.                                     |
| ]g and [g               | Navigate to prev/next of reported diagnostic issues.                      |
| gd                      | Go to definition.                                                         |
| gr                      | Show all references.                                                      |
| K (SHIFT-k)             | Show documentation.                                                       |
| C_ww                    | Go to the inner floating window (only Neovim) or the other side window    |

Commit message:

Vim: Added version note and troubleshooting if AppImage Neovim cannot start

book/docs/setup/editors/vim.md, after:

# Vim

### Credits
- https://github.com/zarej


_This guide is tested on Ubuntu 20.04, but it should work also with the other Linux distros and most probably with macOS and Windows(via WSL) with small modifications from external links._
## installation vim / neovim
Neovim is a little better than Vim when we use it as IDE as it is better supported by coc.nvim plugin. It supports scrolling inside floating windows and also a status bar which is very useful during long back processes. 
### vim
Vim can be easily installed via the package manager of any Linux distribution. For Debian based:
```bash
sudo apt install vim
```
For the other platforms check: https://www.vim.org/
Make sure that you have version >=8.1.1719 or coc.nvim plugin will not work properly.

### neovim
For the most Linux distributions:
```bash
curl -LO https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/latest/download/nvim.appimage
chmod +x nvim.appimage
sudo cp nvim.appimage /usr/local/bin/nvim
```
For the other platforms check install instrustion:
https://github.com/neovim/neovim/wiki/Installing-Neovim
Now nvim can be started with the command: 
```bash
nvim
```
If you get error related to `libfuse` or `fusemount` you should install fuse with:
```bash
sudo apt install fuse
```

## nix-shell
We will use `nix-shell` because everything we need is already installed if we use nix configuration from the main [plutus repository](https://github.com/input-output-hk/plutus). Go to the root directory of the cloned git repository and enter to nix-shell:
```bash
~/plutus$ nix-shell
```

## vim-plug
We need `vim-plug` plugin manager installed to install coc.nvim plugin.

### vim
```bash
curl -fLo ~/.vim/autoload/plug.vim --create-dirs \
    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim
```
### neovim
```bash
sh -c 'curl -fLo "${XDG_DATA_HOME:-$HOME/.local/share}"/nvim/site/autoload/plug.vim --create-dirs \
       https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim'
```
For the or other platforms then Linux, you can check the official [vim-plug docs](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug).

## coc.nvim plugin
[Conqueror of Completion](https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim) is a plugin for Vim/Neovim that provides code completion. 
Add to `~/.vimrc` for Vim or `~/.config/nvim/init.vim` for Neovim the following:
```
call plug#begin('~/.vim/plugged')

Plug 'neoclide/coc.nvim', {'branch': 'release'}

call plug#end()


" Set internal encoding of vim, not needed on neovim, since coc.nvim using some
" unicode characters in the file autoload/float.vim
set encoding=utf-8

" TextEdit might fail if hidden is not set.
set hidden

" Some servers have issues with backup files, see #649.
set nobackup
set nowritebackup

" Give more space for displaying messages.
set cmdheight=2

" Having longer updatetime (default is 4000 ms = 4 s) leads to noticeable
" delays and poor user experience.
set updatetime=300

" Don't pass messages to |ins-completion-menu|.
set shortmess+=c

" Always show the signcolumn, otherwise it would shift the text each time
" diagnostics appear/become resolved.
if has("patch-8.1.1564")
  " Recently vim can merge signcolumn and number column into one
  set signcolumn=number
else
  set signcolumn=yes
endif

" Use tab for trigger completion with characters ahead and navigate.
" NOTE: Use command ':verbose imap <tab>' to make sure tab is not mapped by
" other plugin before putting this into your config.
inoremap <silent><expr> <TAB>
      \ pumvisible() ? "\<C-n>" :
      \ <SID>check_back_space() ? "\<TAB>" :
      \ coc#refresh()
inoremap <expr><S-TAB> pumvisible() ? "\<C-p>" : "\<C-h>"

function! s:check_back_space() abort
  let col = col('.') - 1
  return !col || getline('.')[col - 1]  =~# '\s'
endfunction

" Use <c-space> to trigger completion.
if has('nvim')
  inoremap <silent><expr> <c-space> coc#refresh()
else
  inoremap <silent><expr> <c-@> coc#refresh()
endif

" Make <CR> auto-select the first completion item and notify coc.nvim to
" format on enter, <cr> could be remapped by other vim plugin
inoremap <silent><expr> <cr> pumvisible() ? coc#_select_confirm()
                              \: "\<C-g>u\<CR>\<c-r>=coc#on_enter()\<CR>"

" Use `[g` and `]g` to navigate diagnostics
" Use `:CocDiagnostics` to get all diagnostics of current buffer in location list.
nmap <silent> [g <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-prev)
nmap <silent> ]g <Plug>(coc-diagnostic-next)

" GoTo code navigation.
nmap <silent> gd <Plug>(coc-definition)
nmap <silent> gy <Plug>(coc-type-definition)
nmap <silent> gi <Plug>(coc-implementation)
nmap <silent> gr <Plug>(coc-references)

" Use K to show documentation in preview window.
nnoremap <silent> K :call <SID>show_documentation()<CR>

function! s:show_documentation()
  if (index(['vim','help'], &filetype) >= 0)
    execute 'h '.expand('<cword>')
  elseif (coc#rpc#ready())
    call CocActionAsync('doHover')
  else
    execute '!' . &keywordprg . " " . expand('<cword>')
  endif
endfunction

" Highlight the symbol and its references when holding the cursor.
autocmd CursorHold * silent call CocActionAsync('highlight')

" Symbol renaming.
nmap <leader>rn <Plug>(coc-rename)

" Formatting selected code.
xmap <leader>f  <Plug>(coc-format-selected)
nmap <leader>f  <Plug>(coc-format-selected)

augroup mygroup
  autocmd!
  " Setup formatexpr specified filetype(s).
  autocmd FileType typescript,json setl formatexpr=CocAction('formatSelected')
  " Update signature help on jump placeholder.
  autocmd User CocJumpPlaceholder call CocActionAsync('showSignatureHelp')
augroup end

" Applying codeAction to the selected region.
" Example: `<leader>aap` for current paragraph
xmap <leader>a  <Plug>(coc-codeaction-selected)
nmap <leader>a  <Plug>(coc-codeaction-selected)

" Remap keys for applying codeAction to the current buffer.
nmap <leader>ac  <Plug>(coc-codeaction)
" Apply AutoFix to problem on the current line.
nmap <leader>qf  <Plug>(coc-fix-current)

" Map function and class text objects
" NOTE: Requires 'textDocument.documentSymbol' support from the language server.
xmap if <Plug>(coc-funcobj-i)
omap if <Plug>(coc-funcobj-i)
xmap af <Plug>(coc-funcobj-a)
omap af <Plug>(coc-funcobj-a)
xmap ic <Plug>(coc-classobj-i)
omap ic <Plug>(coc-classobj-i)
xmap ac <Plug>(coc-classobj-a)
omap ac <Plug>(coc-classobj-a)

" Remap <C-f> and <C-b> for scroll float windows/popups.
if has('nvim-0.4.0') || has('patch-8.2.0750')
  nnoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-f> coc#float#has_scroll() ? coc#float#scroll(1) : "\<C-f>"
  nnoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-b> coc#float#has_scroll() ? coc#float#scroll(0) : "\<C-b>"
  inoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-f> coc#float#has_scroll() ? "\<c-r>=coc#float#scroll(1)\<cr>" : "\<Right>"
  inoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-b> coc#float#has_scroll() ? "\<c-r>=coc#float#scroll(0)\<cr>" : "\<Left>"
  vnoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-f> coc#float#has_scroll() ? coc#float#scroll(1) : "\<C-f>"
  vnoremap <silent><nowait><expr> <C-b> coc#float#has_scroll() ? coc#float#scroll(0) : "\<C-b>"
endif

" Use CTRL-S for selections ranges.
" Requires 'textDocument/selectionRange' support of language server.
nmap <silent> <C-s> <Plug>(coc-range-select)
xmap <silent> <C-s> <Plug>(coc-range-select)

" Add `:Format` command to format current buffer.
command! -nargs=0 Format :call CocAction('format')

" Add `:Fold` command to fold current buffer.
command! -nargs=? Fold :call     CocAction('fold', <f-args>)

" Add `:OR` command for organize imports of the current buffer.
command! -nargs=0 OR   :call     CocAction('runCommand', 'editor.action.organizeImport')

" Add (Neo)Vim's native statusline support.
" NOTE: Please see `:h coc-status` for integrations with external plugins that
" provide custom statusline: lightline.vim, vim-airline.
set statusline^=%{coc#status()}%{get(b:,'coc_current_function','')}

" Mappings for CoCList
" Show all diagnostics.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>a  :<C-u>CocList diagnostics<cr>
" Manage extensions.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>e  :<C-u>CocList extensions<cr>
" Show commands.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>c  :<C-u>CocList commands<cr>
" Find symbol of current document.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>o  :<C-u>CocList outline<cr>
" Search workspace symbols.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>s  :<C-u>CocList -I symbols<cr>
" Do default action for next item.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>j  :<C-u>CocNext<CR>
" Do default action for previous item.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>k  :<C-u>CocPrev<CR>
" Resume latest coc list.
nnoremap <silent><nowait> <space>p  :<C-u>CocListResume<CR>


" Custom settings
" Enable line numbers
set number
" Tab and indentation setup
set tabstop=8 softtabstop=0 expandtab shiftwidth=4 smarttab autoindent

```
The first part is `coc.nvim` plugin and the rest is configuration for a code completition. At the last we have `Custom settings` for the other useful configuration like line numbers and tab and indent setup.

Now you can enter to `vim` and execute `:PlugInstall` to install `coc.nvim`. After that you need to exit Vim/Neovim and enter again to launch `coc-nvim` plugin. Next step is to configure it with vim command `:CocConfig` by entering the following:
```json
{
  "languageserver": {
    "haskell": {
      "command": "haskell-language-server",
      "args": ["--lsp"],
      "rootPatterns": ["*.cabal", "stack.yaml", "cabal.project", "package.yaml", "hie.yaml"],
      "filetypes": ["haskell", "lhaskell"]
    }
  }
}

```
We have `haskell-language-server` already installed and accessible via `nix-shell`.

## Start Vim/Nvim
Now you can use `vim` or `neovim` to edit Haskell files with code completion.

When you enter the first time to vim it will need to wait few minutes until code completion is initialized and ghc and cabal finish their jobs. If you are using Neovim you will see progress in status bar.

## Keyboars Shortcuts
 	
\<leader\> key is usually `\` 
C_key(s) is CTRL+key(s)

| Key                     | Description                                                               | 
| ----------------------- |:-------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| \<leader\>f             | Formatting selection.                                                     |
| \<leader\>qf            | Apply suggested quick fix.                                                |
| \<leader\>a             | Select and apply a fix from the list.                                     |
| ]g and [g               | Navigate to prev/next of reported diagnostic issues.                      |
| gd                      | Go to definition.                                                         |
| gr                      | Show all references.                                                      |
| K (SHIFT-k)             | Show documentation.                                                       |
| C_ww                    | Go to the inner floating window (only Neovim) or the other side window    |
